= I18n for JavaScript

It's a small library to provide the Rails I18n translations on the Javascript.

== Usage

=== Installation

  gem install i18n-js

=== Setting up

You <b>don't</b> need to set up a thing. The default settings will work just okay. But if you want to split translations into several files or specify specific contexts, you can follow the rest of this setting up section.

==== Rails <= 3.0

Run <tt>rake i18n:js:setup</tt> to copy <tt>i18n.js</tt> to your javascript directory and <tt>i18n-js.yml</tt> to your config folder (if not already present). Then you're ready to go!

==== Rails >= 3.1

Add the following lines to your application.js to make the javascripts and translations available to your app:

  //= require i18n
  //= require i18n/translations

If asset pipeline has been disabled for your Rails application, then you will need to run <tt>rake i18n:js:setup</tt> to copy <tt>i18n-js.yml</tt> to your config folder (if not already present).

==== Exporting translations

You can export the translations file by running <tt>rake i18n:js:export</tt>.
Translations will be automatically exported in development mode.

==== Configuration

Translation files can be customized. You can even get more files generated to different folders and with different translations to best suit your needs.

Examples:

  translations:
  - file: 'public/javascripts/path-to-your-messages-file.js'
    only: '*.date.formats'
  - file: 'public/javascripts/path-to-your-second-file.js'
    only: ['*.activerecord', '*.admin.*.title']

If <tt>only</tt> is omitted all the translations will be saved. Also, make sure you add that initial <tt>*</tt>; it specifies that all languages will be exported. If you want to export only one language, you can do something like this:

  translations:
  - file: 'public/javascripts/en.js'
    only: 'en.*'
  - file: 'public/javascripts/pt-BR.js'
    only: 'pt-BR.*'

Optionaly, you can auto generate a translation file per available locale if you specify the <tt>%{locale}</tt> placeholder.

  translations:
  - file: "public/javascripts/i18n/%{locale}.js"
    only: '*'
  - file: "public/javascripts/frontend/i18n/%{locale}.js"
    only: ['frontend', 'users']

To find more examples on how to use the configuration file please refer to the tests.

=== On the Javascript

Set your locale is easy as

  I18n.defaultLocale = "pt-BR";
  I18n.locale = "pt-BR";
  I18n.currentLocale();
  // pt-BR

In practice, you'll have something like the following in your <tt>application.html.erb</tt>:

  <script type="text/javascript">
    I18n.defaultLocale = "<%= I18n.default_locale %>";
    I18n.locale = "<%= I18n.locale %>";
  </script>

You can use translate your messages:

  I18n.t("some.scoped.translation");
  // or translate with explicite setting of locale
  I18n.t("some.scoped.translation", {locale: "fr"});

You can also interpolate values:

  I18n.t("hello", {name: "John Doe"});

The sample above will assume that you have the following translations in your
<tt>config/locales/*.yml</tt>:

  en:
    hello: "Hello {{name}}!"

You can set default values for missing scopes:

  // simple translation
  I18n.t("some.missing.scope", {defaultValue: "A default message"});

  // with interpolation
  I18n.t("noun", {defaultValue: "I'm a {{noun}}", noun: "Mac"});

Translation fallback can be handled by taking from I18n.defaultLocale.
To allow this in your application.html.erb specify:

  <script type="text/javascript">
    I18n.fallbacks = true;
  </script>

Then missing translation will be taken from your I18n.defaultLocale.
Example:
  // if I18n.defaultLocale = "en" and translation doesn't exist for I18n.locale = "de"
  I18n.t("some.missing.scope");
  // this key will be taken from "en" locale scope

Pluralization is possible as well:

  I18n.t("inbox.counting", {count: 10}); // You have 10 messages

The sample above expects the following translation:

  en:
    inbox:
      counting:
        one: You have 1 new message
        other: You have {{count}} new messages
        zero: You have no messages

<b>NOTE:</b> Rais I18n recognizes the +zero+ option.

If you're using the same scope over and over again, you may use the +scope+ option.

  var options = {scope: "activerecord.attributes.user"};

  I18n.t("name", options);
  I18n.t("email", options);
  I18n.t("username", options);

You also provide an array as scope.

  // use the greetings.hello scope
  I18n.t(["greetings", "hello"]);

==== Number formatting

Similar to Rails helpers, you have localized number and currency formatting.

  I18n.l("currency", 1990.99);
  // $1,990.99

  I18n.l("number", 1990.99);
  // 1,990.99

  I18n.l("percentage", 123.45);
  // 123.450%

To have more control over number formatting, you can use the <tt>I18n.toNumber</tt>, <tt>I18n.toPercentage</tt>, <tt>I18n.toCurrency</tt> and <tt>I18n.toHumanSize</tt> functions.

  I18n.toNumber(1000);     // 1,000.000
  I18n.toCurrency(1000);   // $1,000.00
  I18n.toPercentage(100);  // 100.000%

The +toNumber+ and +toPercentage+ functions accept the following options:

* +precision+: defaults to 3
* +separator+: defaults to <tt>.</tt>
* +delimiter+: defaults to <tt>,</tt>
* +strip_insignificant_zeros+: defaults to <tt>false</tt>

See some number formatting examples:

  I18n.toNumber(1000, {precision: 0});                   // 1,000
  I18n.toNumber(1000, {delimiter: ".", separator: ","}); // 1.000,000
  I18n.toNumber(1000, {delimiter: ".", precision: 0});   // 1.000

The +toCurrency+ function accepts the following options:

* +precision+: sets the level of precision
* +separator+: sets the separator between the units
* +delimiter+: sets the thousands delimiter
* +format+: sets the format of the output string
* +unit+: sets the denomination of the currency
* +strip_insignificant_zeros+: defaults to <tt>false</tt>

You can provide only the options you want to override:

  I18n.toCurrency(1000, {precision: 0}); // $1,000

The +toHumanSize+ function accepts the following options:

* +precision+: defaults to 1
* +separator+: defaults to <tt>.</tt>
* +delimiter+: defaults to <tt>""</tt>
* +strip_insignificant_zeros+: defaults to <tt>false</tt>
* +format+: defaults to <tt>%n%u</tt>

  I18n.toHumanSize(1234); // 1KB
  I18n.toHumanSize(1234 * 1024); // 1MB

==== Date formatting

  // accepted formats
  I18n.l("date.formats.short", "2009-09-18");           // yyyy-mm-dd
  I18n.l("time.formats.short", "2009-09-18 23:12:43");  // yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss
  I18n.l("time.formats.short", "2009-11-09T18:10:34");  // JSON format with local Timezone (part of ISO-8601)
  I18n.l("time.formats.short", "2009-11-09T18:10:34Z"); // JSON format in UTC (part of ISO-8601)
  I18n.l("date.formats.short", 1251862029000);          // Epoch time
  I18n.l("date.formats.short", "09/18/2009");           // mm/dd/yyyy
  I18n.l("date.formats.short", (new Date()));           // Date object

If you prefer, you can use the <tt>I18n.strftime</tt> function to format dates.

  var date = new Date();
  I18n.strftime(date, "%d/%m/%Y");

The accepted formats are:

  %a  - The abbreviated weekday name (Sun)
  %A  - The full weekday name (Sunday)
  %b  - The abbreviated month name (Jan)
  %B  - The full month name (January)
  %c  - The preferred local date and time representation
  %d  - Day of the month (01..31)
  %-d - Day of the month (1..31)
  %H  - Hour of the day, 24-hour clock (00..23)
  %-H - Hour of the day, 24-hour clock (0..23)
  %I  - Hour of the day, 12-hour clock (01..12)
  %-I - Hour of the day, 12-hour clock (1..12)
  %m  - Month of the year (01..12)
  %-m - Month of the year (1..12)
  %M  - Minute of the hour (00..59)
  %-M - Minute of the hour (0..59)
  %p  - Meridian indicator (AM  or  PM)
  %S  - Second of the minute (00..60)
  %-S - Second of the minute (0..60)
  %w  - Day of the week (Sunday is 0, 0..6)
  %y  - Year without a century (00..99)
  %-y - Year without a century (0..99)
  %Y  - Year with century
  %z  - Timezone offset (+0545)

Check out <tt>vendor/plugins/i18n-js/spec/i18n_spec.js</tt> for more examples!

== Using I18nJS with other languages (Python, PHP, ...)

The JavaScript library is language agnostic; so you can use it with PHP, Python, [you favorite language here].
The only requirement is that you need to set the +translations+ attribute like following:

  I18n.translations = {};

  I18n.translations["en"] = {
    message: "Some special message for you"
  }

  I18n.translations["pt-BR"] = {
    message: "Uma mensagem especial para você"
  }

== Maintainer

* Nando Vieira - http://simplesideias.com.br
* Sébastien Grosjean - http://github.com/ZenCocoon

== Contributing

Once you've made your great commits:

1. Fork[http://help.github.com/forking/] I18n-JS
2. Create a topic branch - <tt>git checkout -b my_branch</tt>
3. Push to your branch - <tt>git push origin my_branch</tt>
4. Create an Issue[http://github.com/fnando/i18n-js/issues] with a link to your branch
5. That's it!

Please respect the indentation rules. And use 2 spaces, not tabs.

=== Running tests

First, install all dependencies.

  bundle install

Then just run <tt>rake spec</tt>.

== License

(The MIT License)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
